S. Ford

"If you'll please have a seat, Mr. Elmerik. The doctor will be in shortly." On the wall
behind the woman who greeted him, flush with the top of her tightly knotted bun, was a neat
aluminum sign that read "Genertek." Ford eased himself into a chair and glanced back at the
lobby entrance. He could make out half of the broad back of the man by the front door, a giant of
a person in a freshly pressed suit, his smooth shaved scalp glinting in the sunlight. Ford leaned
back and reached for one of the magazines on the table beside him. Without looking down he
began to flip through its pages, his keen architect's eyes wandering the room. The space was airy
and open-much larger than he'd expect a waiting room to be. It felt at once sanitized and
organic. Fern-lined planters hugged the walls, tapering off in smooth slow curves, while above
him a sourceless white light emanated from the high glass ceiling. Ford could hear a faint,
soothing trickle, as of a nearby stream, but couldn't locate the source of the noise. Behind the
planters was a panorama of seamless frosted windows where swaying trees and drifting skies
seemed to shift and shimmer in green-blue blurs. But Ford knew what really lay on the other side
of those windows: a bunker-like structure of graphene-reinforced concrete. It was his firm who
had developed the cutting-edge FLED panels used to conceal it.
"Mr. Elmerik?" came a high, nasally voice. "I'm Dr. Glover. It's a pleasure to have you."
Ford saw the man's hand before he saw his face. It was held out in front of Ford's nose,
hovering over the open magazine in his lap. He closed the magazine and shook the hand. The
man's grip was weak and not particularly warm-a hand that had been working without much
urgency in an air-conditioned room.
"This way, please," said the doctor, motioning to an open door. Ford noted the security
camera mounted above it and the transparent polycarbonate square set in the hard metal frame.
He stood up and followed the doctor through the door into a wide hallway. The light-emitting
panels were present here, too. They showed golden wheat bending in a gentle breeze. Ford
thought he could hear the sound of far-off wind.
"We're thrilled to be working with you on our new campus," Dr. Glover said. He was
walking quite quickly, his short legs pumping rapidly. He showed no sign of sweating or
difficulty breathing, which led Ford to conclude the doctor always moved around at this unusual
clip.
"Oh, good," Ford replied, trying to keep up despite his longer stride.
"Of course, I'll not-this room here-I won't be personally involved. In the design, that
is. But I have given many suggestions to the committee. We're all very thrilled." Dr. Glover
entered behind Ford and let go of the door, which made a slight sucking sound as it closed. He
crossed to the other side of the room and lowered himself into a large leather-backed chair. Dr.
Glover's office felt utterly different from the lobby. Rows of wooden bookshelves lined the back
wall, packed with thick medical manuscripts and encyclopedias. The heavy oak desk at which
the doctor was seated looked to be several times older than the building they were in. The only
hint of modernity came from the electric fireplace mounted on the wall to Ford's left, and the
barely audible hum of the HVAC system somewhere overhead. Dr. Glover cleared his throat and
motioned to the empty armchairs in front of his desk. It struck Ford that a large part of his life
lately consisted of moving from one chair to another fairly closeby chair.
"I'm sure Claypool has already explained this to you," said the doctor, taking a pamphlet
from a pile and holding it out to Ford. "We're bringing your team into our exclusive employee
health plan for the duration of the project. You can find all the details in there, including the
precise time frame. You and your spouse qualify, of course, as well as any children you may
have. Are you a father, Mr. Elmerik?" he asked, a polite smile on his lips.
"No," Ford said softly.
"Of course. I understand. Perhaps one day. But onward to the point. You're here today
for DNA sequencing. It's not part of the usual package, but we've made special arrangements
considering your..." the doctor scratched the side of his nose, "unique condition. We'll use the
information we collect to tailor your gene supplements. Keep in mind this is our own line of
products and our own proprietary technology. Truly state of the art stuff. You won't find this
medicine anywhere else. Between you and me," he said, lowering his voice and leaning in
conspiratorially, "a certain Senator Graham was in to see us just last week."
"Really?" said Ford, trying to sound interested. He was imagining what his wife would
think of this. Not the shrewd politician she'd become but the firebrand he'd met at art school all
those years ago. They would have both scoffed at the doctor's pitch, told him to keep his snake
oil to himself. But that was then, and now he was dying.
Dr. Glover moved onto the paperwork, which he passed across the desk sheet after sheet,
pointing to the signature lines, the cramp in Ford's hand worsening with each initialed page.
They returned to the hallway and headed further into the facility. Ford found himself longing for
the warmth of Dr. Glover's office, however contrived it might have been. The Genertek hallways
had a cold, anonymous modernity. Ford missed the days of off-white drywall and marbled
linoleum floors. There had been something endearing about those brutal old designs-something
intimately daft, like you and everyone around you were the butt of the same bad architectural
joke. Of course, Ford would never have voiced this opinion to his firm or to Dr. Glover, who
seemed to be so thrilled with Claypool's work.
"I'm going to leave you in Patricia's capable hands from some quick bloodwork," Dr.
Glover said, guiding Ford into a cramped cabinet-lined room. A nurse in mauve scrubs smiled
silently at him as the doctor disappeared around the corner. He muttered a greeting and took a
seat in the padded chair across from the door, flexing his forearm to expose the vain in the crook
of his elbow. Ford had lost count of how many needles had gone into his arm over the past few
years. He watched patiently as the nurse stoppered the blood-filled vial with a vivid lavender
cap, expecting her to say he was finished and that he could stand back up. Instead, she set the
tube aside and reached for a frighteningly long metal instrument Ford had never seen before.
"It's not as bad as it looks," the nurse said, noting his look of concern. Her voice was low
and somewhat rhaspy, as though she hadn't spoken for some time. "And it's faster than the blood
work." She explained how the device worked and directed him to lie flat on the examination
table, facing the ceiling. She pressed the end of the instrument to a point near his sternum, asked
him to breathe out, and jammed down a button with her thumb. It took a moment for Ford to feel
the pain. The nurse was already detaching the long stem from the base of the device when it
started. For a moment Ford thought something had gone terribly wrong. He felt like he'd been
shot with a microscopic bullet. A line of white-hot pain lanced through his chest. His eyes bulged
with shock as a gasp forced its way from his lips. Then suddenly the pain was gone, and he was
sitting up again, panting, his hands crinkling the rough sheet of sanitary paper beneath him. The
nurse handed him a plastic cup of water and told him to take as long as he needed.
When he left the phlebotomy room, Dr. Glover was waiting for him with a restrained
smile. "That's the hard part done with," he said, looking Ford over. He was evidently satisfied by
what he saw, for he immediately turned and began walking again, his pace as rapid as before.
"Couldn't you have just taken a hair or a cheek swab?" asked Ford. He was having even
more trouble keeping up with the doctor now. That all-too-familiar afternoon exhaustion was
setting in. He thought he had one or two more hours tops before a non-negotiable nap would
have to be taken.
"Oh, well, of course. But the lab's sequencing results can vary between blood and organ
samples. And that aortic sample isn't just for genetic information. It also allows us to monitor
your mitotic processes in real time."
Ford felt his head beginning to spin as they turned down yet another corridor. Dr. Glover
seemed to have seized Ford's question as an opportunity to recite every piece of medical
information he knew about the procedure. Ford at one point thought he heard the words "penile
detachment" but quickly convinced himself he hadn't. Eventually he stopped trying to
understand what the doctor was saying and instead focused on the endless doorways scrolling by.
One of them led to a room that looked like it belonged in a pediatric ward. A repeating pattern of
circus clowns riding bicycles and flying airplanes papered the walls. Farther down the hall they
passed what Ford could have sworn was the woman who had taken his blood, though she seemed
to have changed into slacks and a padded blazer.
Finally Ford was led into a room where he was prodded and slathered with cold clear
jelly by an oddly attractive nurse whose light blue scrubs were clearly too small for his broad
muscular chest. This time the lights were turned off and wands waved across his body by hands
whose owners he couldn't see. The jellied patches seemed to glow and pulsate under the
ultraviolet light. Ford realized he didn't know where his clothes had gone. Did somebody put
them in a locker? He felt the lower half of his butt slipping out of the loose-backed hospital
smock and laughed to himself deliriously.
"That's the spirit!" he heard Dr. Glover shout over an intercom. Was the mirror above
that sink one-way glass? "Do know these data we're collecting right now are crucial. Absolutely
pivotal, so don't despair. We have a top-notch pupusa stand right in our food court, and you and I
have got a pair of al pastors with our names on them. They're soy-based but you'd never know!"
He found his clothes in a paper bag on a bench next to the shower. When he had washed
and changed, Dr. Glover led him back toward his office, but turned at the last moment into an
inexplicably circular room where two men with clipboards were waiting in backless chairs. One
wore a white lab coat with a name tag that read "Leroix" in purple needle point. The other was
dressed in a dark grey Savile Row suit and polished burgundy wingtips. Leroix cleared his throat
and picked up where Dr. Glover left off, explaining the results of Ford's DNA sequencing.
Phrases like "autosomal dominant disorders" and "pathological anagenesis" and "penile
detachment" (?) ricocheted off Ford's tired brain. The man in the suit stayed silent throughout
the meeting. Occasionally he would look down at his clipboard and wrinkle his upper lip, so that
the thin black moustache above it squirmed like a caterpillar. Leroix was going off on a tangent
about Gnau medical vocabulary and the use of betel nut in suggestive ethnomagical treatments,
and continued in this fashion for quite some time before Dr. Glover finally gave a pointed little
cough and brought the conversation back to the Western hemisphere. Ford tried to pretend to
keep up with all the jargon, arranging his features into expressions he hoped conveyed
understanding, all the while trying to recall what the hell a pupusa was and if he'd ever even
eaten one. The man in the suit had kind of a weak chin and a posture that was nothing to write
home about. Dr. Glover was speaking again, pacing around in a tight figure eight, looking like he
wished he could sit down. Ford was now ninety-five percent certain the doctors were saying
"penile detachment," or at least a very close homonym. If he turned his foot forty-five degrees he
found he could perfectly fit his shoe inside a single square floor tile.
"I'm afraid those pupusas will have to wait," Dr. Glover said half an hour later, checking
the oversized watch on his wrist. He was herding Ford back down the hallway to the lobby.
"Urgent, urgent client. But we will call you. To follow up." He gave Ford an exhortative push
through the door, then turned and shuffled back down the panel-lined corridor.
Ford squinted against the glaring sunset as he searched for his car in the lot. His legs felt
weak, like they might buckle at any moment. It was later than he'd thought. Already long
shadows streaked the pavement like grasping fingers. When he found his car he opened the door
and sank down behind the steering wheel, exhausted. He closed his eyes, directed the air
conditioning vent at his face, and turned the keys. The radio came on as a pleasant breeze spread
across his damp forehead. A newscaster droned on in the background, hardly audible above the
hum of the A/C. The voice was saying something about a massive crisis. Or was it plastic prices?
Ford could just barely detect a change in the red shade of his closed eyelids if he shifted to his
right, which meant the driver's side of his car was intersecting with one of those long shadows.
The man on the radio kept updating a number every minute or so. It was up to two hundred.
What time did Shirley say she needed the car again? Kind of odd, scheduling a meeting that late.
Two hundred and fifty. But then, politicians were an odd bunch. Always on the move, always
making their rounds. She called it meeting the constituents. Three hundred and fifty. Ford's left
knee was sore for no particular reason. Every day that he woke up with a new and unexplained
symptom, he was afraid it might be the last one. Five hundred and ten. His physician had long
since given up trying to diagnose every ache and pain he presented with. Better to cut the roots
than pick the berries. Seven hundred.
Ford reached for the dashboard. The air on his head had become unpleasantly cool. His
hand was suspended over the black plastic A/C dial when he felt a small static shock in his
outstretched fingers. For an instant he thought he was back in the phlebotomy room, back on the
table under that ungodly needle. Then the shock began to spread. It passed up his arm and down
his spine, into his legs and to the ends of his toes, pushing out everything in its path, searing
away all the pain and fog and fatigue like a bolt of cleansing lightning. He was struck with the
distinct image of a starved plant drinking long-awaited rain, of fresh water rushing to wilted
stems and desiccated leaves, and then that image became cars on a highway, a train of stalled red
eyes that blinked and inched forward and opened and were red again. And now the cars were
satellites navigating the increasingly congested lanes of high earth orbit, shining beacons circling
above the sky, while far below flocks of crows thrust through the air like black arrowheads and
silver wolves padded the ground, equal members of the same sophisticated pack, their minds
pushed to the precipice of possibility. All this Ford saw in sequence and at once, backwards and
forwards, the wheel of his thoughts spinning and shining around his mind, every corner
illuminated. And as the broadcast from the speakers resolved once more into crackling life, the
growing death toll now in excess of one thousand, Ford couldn't help but wonder if any of it
even mattered.

George

George was already awake when his alarm went off at six. He'd slept very little-only four or
five hours. Adjusting to the night shift was proving difficult. Not to mention he now had to drive
an additional ten minutes to work. It didn't sound like much when he'd taken the job, but on the
evening before his first shift he lay anxiously in bed calculating how much extra time he would
spend in transit per week, per year, over his lifetime. He was fifty-five years old already-well
over the hump, as it were-and he figured he had another thirty in him, barring some fatal
accident. He was in good shape for his age. He didn't smoke, ate as well as he could afford, and
ran a country mile every day around the sub-suburban neighborhood he called home.
In all he was looking at 130 days of extra driving, on top of the initial 195, between now
and the day he died. Nearly a full year behind the wheel. And that didn't include his grocery
shopping, dentist appointments, and get-togethers. Not that he'd been getting together much with
anyone lately. After he was laid off and his wife left, he'd withdrawn from the world. Even if he
were to see someone, he doubted they'd find much pleasure in his company. What would they
talk about? His divorced wife? The daughter she'd taken with her? His new late-night job at the
gas station? No. Best he not burden anyone else with his troubles. The truth was he hated the
longer drive because it gave him more time to think about everything-to wonder how George
Ludlow, the successful journalist, husband, and father, had become George Ludlow, the
divorced, daughter-less gas station attendant.
In fact the answer to that question was simple. It was stubbornness that had gotten him
into this mess: his inability to let go of the old and embrace the new. When Lumina flooded the
market four years ago, he had no fear it would endanger his career. Then slowly the complexion
of the company began to change. Veteran writers started being replaced by bright-eyed
newcomers with seemingly unlimited focus and inexhaustible memory. George had been offered
the booster shots for free as part of the company's new medical plan, but he refused. He prided
himself too much on his knowledge and experience to admit it should-or could-be enhanced
in some way. And so eventually the day came when he was the one clearing out his desk and
collecting his final pay, missing out on the twenty-year severance bonus by nine days.
He got dressed and left the house. Outside the air was cool and the sky was clear.
Although the sun was only just beginning to set, George could make out the faint twinkling of
far-off stars. He jiggled the key in the door of his antique Firebird, cursing the car's sticky locks
and his own unwillingness to break out the graphite and lubricate them. He used to work on this
car every day, back when it had cost him his teenage life's savings to buy the beat-up machine.
He had fixed the intake, replaced the brakes, toyed around with the suspension, and generally
obsessed over the vehicle. He never took his friends up on their challenges to race, but he knew
he would have outstripped them easily. By the time he graduated he knew the car inside and out.
His college friends even started coming to him for help with their own automotive issues. Then
he got married, and the responsibilities of his job and newborn daughter demanded he set the
hobby aside. Instead the car collected dust in the garage, until he and his wife split their assets in
the divorce. He received a few offers from collectors as old gas cars were cycled out for
electrics, but he never considered selling it. It would be like losing a limb, he told himself. The
car was a piece of him-proof that he once had passion, that he once had skill and knowledge
enough to bore out a cylinder or fix a broken suspension. Now he hardly even knew how to work
his optik. More often than not the lime-sized orb lay forgotten in some corner of the room or on
the counter at work, its glassy surface staring vacantly at the ceiling. It was the same
stubbornness that had led him to reject Lumina, a fear of being somehow diminished by making
his life easier, of being weakened by convenience.
Inside the long, low cabin he reached up to adjust the rearview mirror. He always had to
angle it up slightly before he drove to work. Then, when his shift was over and his body was
stooped and crushed, he would bend it back down before driving home. Now as he fingered the
plastic frame he studied his reflected face. It had a rugged handsomeness. Black and gray stubble
lined his low-slung jaw and dotted the valleys of his hollow cheeks. His skin had the tan,
leathery aspect of a deckhand's, and long trench-like wrinkles extended from the corners of his
mouth to the edges of his deep blue eyes. He took his hand from the mirror and started the car. It
gave an exhausted rumble and rolled out of the driveway onto the road.
Another drive to work. Past the clogged and polluted creek that abutted his property. Past
the old Lumina billboard with that all too familiar slogan. Past the train crossing, its boom gate
forever poised to go down on the discontinued line. As he drove under the pedestrian footbridge
(just as abandoned as the train tracks) he spotted an unfamiliar fixture. It was a crashed car. It
appeared to have veered left coming from the opposite direction, crossed lanes through a gap in
the barrier, and hit the far bank of the bridge. He pulled off the road just beyond it and looked in
his mirror. He saw no sign of fire, just a little smoke rising from the rear of the car and the steady
blinking of red lights on the undercarriage. He wondered how long it had been since he last saw
a crashed car. You heard about malfunctions and freak accidents every now and again, but for
the most part greencars had made auto accidents a thing of the past.
George got out of his Firebird and jogged over to the other car, a massive black Groupcar
the size of a light tank. Inside were two girls. The one at the wheel looked unconscious while the
one in the passenger seat was rocking back and forth, a thin screen in her hand. The smell of
burnt rubber filled George's nose. He tapped on the passenger window and the girl flinched.
"You need to turn the car off," he said with a restrained shout, pitching his voice the way one
might to talk to someone at a loud concert. The girl shook her head and pointed to her ears. How
thick is the glass on this thing, George wondered. He could be sitting in his Firebird and hear a
penny drop across the street. He made a twisting motion with his hand and mouthed, "Turn it
off." The girl shook her head, confused. He looked across her at the ignition switch. No keyhole,
just a button. "Just open the door," he said, motioning likewise. This time the girl understood.
"Turn the car off," he said when she had opened the door a little. He was feeling a little
frustrated and the words came out sounding more like a command than an instruction. "I think
your friend's got it in manual. Her foot is still on the gas," he explained, a little quieter now.
"You need to put her in park. The car, I mean." The girl nodded and reached over the armrest.
She tried to move her friend's leg but it slid back into place on the gas pedal. She looked around
and found a glass bottle on the floor, which she placed under the other girl's knee to prop it up.
Then she tapped something on the dashboard and pressed the ignition. The car fell silent.
The girl slumped back in her seat, looking slightly relieved. Then she began to cry.
George looked on uncomfortably, not sure what to do. He wasn't the most compassionate person
and he knew that. For all his self-pity, when it came to others he usually adopted an unhelpful
"shit happens" attitude. "Hey, it's alright," he ventured. "The damage isn't too bad and you both
look fine." He stared uncertainly at the girl in the driver's seat. There was no visible damage to
her body, though she did look a little ill. Then he noticed the vodka label on the glass bottle
under her knee. "Shit," he said quietly. He took a step backward. This was just what he needed,
to stumble across a DUI on his way to work.
The girl in the passenger seat seemed to realize what he was thinking. "Wait," she said,
wiping her eyes on the skin of her wrist and leaving behind a wet streak of mascara. She was a
pretty girl. Just a few years older than his daughter, probably. "Don't go," the girl implored. "It's
not what it looks like. She was fine, and then all of a sudden..."
George glanced around. There weren't too many cars on the road this late. Every thirty
seconds or so one would pass by and the driver would crane their neck to survey the damage,
then zoom off into the darkening night. If he'd left home just a minute later, he might have been
one of those cars. He looked at his watch. He still had half an hour before his shift, twenty
minutes of which would have to be spent driving. He sighed. "Let's have a look at your friend."
The girl accompanied George around the back of the car. On closer inspection it looked
like the SUV had taken out a part of the metal lane divider, which had lodged itself under the
rear suspension. It explained why the crash hadn't been much worse; the friction of the divider
piece must have slowed the car down, even when the driver still had her foot on the pedal.
George shook his head. He wondered what he would do if his daughter ever crashed his car.
Then he remembered she'd never have the chance.
When he opened the driver's side door the unconscious girl started leaning out, and
George had to reach out an arm to stabilize her. He caught her awkwardly with his hand under
her left breast and quickly forced her body back into the seat. He glanced quickly at the other
girl, but she didn't seem to have noticed the indiscretion. Good. It would be just his luck to spend
the night in jail for accidentally fondling a minor. With the indifference of a parent changing a
diaper, he put two fingers on the girl's neck. Her skin felt unexpectedly cool. After he made sure
there was a pulse, he gently placed a thumb on her left eyelid and pulled it back, expecting to see
the telltale dilation that comes with intoxication. Instead the girl's pupils were tightly constricted.
George thought he could see the irises around them dissolving into an oblivious shade of white.
He shivered. There was something chilling about the eyes. They looked somehow counterfeit,
foreign features on an otherwise human face.
He turned to the girl and opened his mouth to speak, then closed it. How to put it
delicately? "Look, I appreciate the bind you're in. But at this point, trouble's unavoidable. I'm
gonna call an ambulance for your friend. GreenCar's probably already sending someone out to
investigate."
"Wait, please!" the girl pleaded, stepping forward.
"It's for your own good," said George. He felt bad for the girl, but he knew there wasn't
any alternative. Her parents were going to find out anyway, and the driver definitely needed
medical attention. Getting busted could be the least of their worries.
George reached into his pocket and withdrew a flexible black screen. His optik was still
sitting in the glove compartment of his car, but he figured he was close enough to connect. It was
the first time he'd used the phone since last week, when that simpering rep from Bayside-Clover
had tried to convince him he still owed $500 for his elbow surgery.
"Hello?" George said, struggling to make out the operator's voice. He began walking
toward his car. "Can you hear me?" The voice on the other end was broken and inaudible.
"Hello?" He leaned with his back against the trunk, one shoe on the bumper. He hung up and
dialed again, jabbing the three digits into the keypad. "Can anyone hear me?" he said, raising his
voice above the harsh, rasping static. He cursed and made his way back to the greencar. He
wasn't sure whether it was a poor signal or his refurbished optik interfering with the call.
Frowning, he returned his attention to the unconscious driver. She was moaning now, squirming
uncomfortably in her seat. George rolled down the sleeve of his shirt and used it to wipe off a
few beads of sweat that had gathered on her forehead. It felt cold as it seeped through the fabric
to his forearm. The girl's skin looked even paler than before, a waxen mask pulled taut over the
delicate bones of her cheeks. She groaned softly and a sweet citrus smell invaded his nose. Her
eyes fluttered open then closed, thick, mascara-stiffened lashes drawing in and out like the spines
of a venus fly trap.
"Miss," George said softly. "Can you hear me?" The girl moved her head up and down
slowly. The edges of her dark red lips trembled, as if trying to form a smile. "Miss, can you tell
me your name?"
She drew her face a little closer to George's. He could see the returning roots of her
plucked eyebrows and the faint blonde down around her chin. Suddenly the girl lurched forward
with a jolt and planted her lips on his. He reeled backward out of the car and nearly tripped into
the ditch behind him. For a moment he stood still, panting, not sure how to react. Then, "What
the hell is this? Was that the plan all along? To blame this all on some passerby?" He tried to
edge his voice with anger, and succeeded. All the embarrassment and hatred of the last months
welled up within him, magnified by a growing sense of self-pity. Couldn't he catch a break, just
this once? Why did everything always go to shit for him? This was his punishment for trying to
help, he supposed-for being soft, for being weak.
"What?" the girl outside cried. She ran over to check orn her friend, who evidently had
fainted again and was sagging forward out of the car. "No, of course not!" she pleaded, heaving
the unconscious girl back into the car. "I have no idea what that was."
George was fuming. He felt a tingling along his scalp, sensed drops of sweat forming
along the collar of his shirt. "I don't have time for this," he said finally, clenching his fists. "Find
another sucker to help you." He began to walk back to his car.
"Please. Please just take us to the nearest rest stop so we can call help. You're right," the
girl admitted, beginning to cry again. "There's no other choice."
George turned around and looked at the girl. She really did resemble his daughter. The
thin nose and narrow jaw, those long, slightly turned-in legs. He felt his anger ebbing away,
replaced by an impotent sense of longing and fatigue. "Listen," he said steadily, "I'll head
toward the next gas station and keep calling until I get through. You stay here and take care of
your friend."
"Thank you," the girl said. Beneath the tears she wore a look of utter resignation.
George felt a last pang of sympathy. "I'd get rid of that bottle if I were you," he said, then
got back in his car and drove off.
It was only as he pulled into the gas station that he tasted the coppery tang of blood on his
upper lip.